A business analyst is a liaison or a link between different stakeholders belonging to different domains in an organization.

What is INVEST?

INVEST is an abbreviation of Independent, Negotiable, Valuable, Estimable, Sized appropriately, and Testable. 
This term is used by business analysts and project managers to deliver quality services and products.

MoSCoW stands for Must or Should, Could or Would. A business analyst should implement this process by comparing every demand with other needs 
to prioritize the framework requirements. For example, is this requirement a must-have or should have?

SWOT or Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities, and Threats Analysis is the most widely used technique in organizations for proper resource allocation. 
A business analyst should be able to identify the strengths and weaknesses of any corporate framework and translate them into opportunities and threats. 

The main stages of any business or IT project are Initiation, Planning, Execution, Monitoring, and Closure.

BRD is an abbreviation for Business Requirement Document. It is a formal contract between the organization and the client for the development of the specific product.
BRD is a functional specification of the software whereas SRS is both BA creates it after their direct interaction with the clients
BRD is created by a business analyst after their direct interaction with the clients, whereas SRS is designed based on technical expertise and needs.
SRS is derived from BRD

A requirement is a targeted solution and representation to achieve specific business objectives. Stakeholders evaluate the project based on set conditions/requirements before its implementation

The key attributes of business modelling to develop a strategic plan for an organization are:

Vision
Mission
Objectives
Strategies
Action plan

Gap Analysis means the analysis of the differences between the functionalities of an existing and the targeted system

Sl.no	Data Analyst	Business Analyst
1	The role requires more problem-solving skills and data analysis skills	It requires more decision-making and data visualization skills
2	It is more of an operational role in the organization.	It is more of a strategic role in the organization.
3	It requires knowledge of statistics, SQL, data mining, etc.	Knowledge of Business Intelligence, Data Warehousing, Analytics, etc. is required for this role.

Here is the list of Business Analytics Tools:

1. MS Office and SQL
2. Blueprint
3. Python and R Programming
4. QlikView and Tableau
5. Axure

Explain the business analysis process flow :

Information gathering
Identify the key stakeholders
Identify the business objective
Determine the available options
Scope the definition
Define the delivery plan
Define the requirements of the project
Implementation and evaluation

How do you perform risk management in your project?

A risk is defined as an uncertain event that causes a threat to the existing business, which can cause an impact on revenue or sometimes on the profits of a business. Risk-management techniques such as risk avoidance, reduction, transfer, and acceptance can be used. We have to identify, analyze, evaluate, and control the risk in a business.

What are the different phases of an IT project :

There are five phases in project management which include:
1. Project initiation
2. Project planning
3. Project execution
4. Project monitoring and control
5. Project closure

What are the tasks and responsibilities of a Project Manager?

A Project Manager is responsible for taking decisions, controlling risks, and delivering the project on the stipulated time. His/her responsibilities include:

Defining the scope
Resource planning
Cost and budget estimation
Risk analysis
Quality control

What is business modeling?

Business modeling is identifying the value proposition for a business and then building a step-by-step approach for operating the business. 
This step-by-step approach is known as business modeling. It includes vision, mission, and strategies to achieve the goals.

What is the use of UML?

Unified Modeling Language (UML) is a general-purpose, developmental modeling language that provides a standard way to visualize the system. It is used to:

1. Reason the system behavior
2. Detect and eliminate errors
3. Propose design plans to stakeholders

What are the initial steps involved in product development?

1. Market analysis
2. SWOT analysis
3. Personas
4. Competitor analysis
5. Identifying the strategic vision

